Welcome to Slash Forward.
In this episode we’re going to dive into
a philosophical meditation on the dangers
of allowing our political landscape to develop
into a three party system.
In this case, under the context of that third
party determining that there were insufficient
resources to provide the level of care necessary
for a functional society.
Given this, and under the guise that purging
one’s deep-seated emotional turmoil is a
necessary aspect of human nature, the concept
of the purge was born.
But, is it helpful, and is it actually healthy?
In order to look forward we first have to
go back - to the beginning - and see how it
all started with The First Purge.
In the process of parsing this information,
please don’t let me prevent you from hitting
the like button if you see or hear something
you like, nor from leaving a comment identifying
your favorite film from the purge series.
Let’s get to it.
We open on an interview with a colorful gentleman
who openly acknowledges his need for the pipe.
If he doesn’t get it, he becomes unrepentantly
violent.
While some may struggle with this aspect of
their personality, Skeletor recognizes this
as just a part of who he is - he has to purge
We then listen in on a newsreel that describes,
essentially, the world as it is right now.
Widespread unrest has led to the emergence
of a dreaded third political party, this one
named the New Founding Fathers.
This group has, through promises of revitalization,
managed to rise to power.
We then transition to Staten Island, somewhere
in New England, where we meet Dmitri - the
neighborhood boss getting in his cardio while
learning about this new purge situation, which
is to be tested for the first time in Staten
Island.
We also meet Nya and Isaiah, doing the best
they can with what they have and trying to
ignore the upcoming event that looms over
them, like a leaky pipe about to burst, perhaps?
We’re then invited into another confidential
interview where we learn the NFFA, the governing
body overseeing this experiment, is paying
residents to stay on the island.
In addition, they’re offering monetary bonuses
for engaging in and instigating purge activities.
As the news reports on the growing anticipation,
most of the normies are working to get off
the island.
Amidst the protests against this barbaric
experiment, the NFFA Chief of Staff confirms
that this is a vetted and voted upon project,
so it’s legit.
Dr. Updale, the project’s conceiver, also
confirms that it is apolitical, it’s purpose
is therapeutic and should help to heal the
growing rifts in our society.
Dmitri then descends from his ivory tower
to take in the ambiance, pay tribute to who
he calls the three kings of the neighborhood
and confide in Nya that, despite being an
unsavory fellow, he’s not into this type
of unbridled destruction.
On a nearby corner we see Isaiah training
up for his new job - to the disapproving clucks
of the old-timers.
He gets his first test from Skelator, who
tries to convince him that it’s customary
for new slangers to hook up their good customers
with a free sample.
Isaiah’s response is not customer-service
oriented so Skelly sprays him with COVID before
slicing his neck and running off.
We then transition to Dmitri, holding a town
hall for his employees where he encourages
them to lay low and avoid getting hurt.
The goal here is to prevent profit loss or
creating an opportunistic opening for their
enemies.
They’ve deemed it too risky to try to move
the stuff or the money off the island.
After a little bit of power checking, they’re
feeling pretty confident that they have everything
squared away with limited likelihood that
they’ll ultimately reap what they sow.
When we see Isaiah again, he’s addressing
his fresh neck wound.
However, he didn’t do enough to stem the
flow before laying down a scarlet trail for
Nya to follow.
She is disheartened to learn he’s been running
the streets for D. As we transition over to
the local sports clubs where the boys are
getting in a few last hoops before the murder
sprees start up, we discover that D is also
an active coach and mentor to many young men.
Nya busts in and expresses her dissatisfaction
in Isaiah’s career aspirations, which Dmitri
claims to be ignorant of, but he vows to balance
the scales of justice here.
Recognizing this as code for violent retribution,
Nya admonishes her former lover for the man
he’s become.
Still thirsty for that filthy lucca, Isaiah
takes his first free moment to visit a purge
trailer where he receives his complimentary
flower and recording lenses.
An hour before the purge starts, we see that
not everyone who wanted to leave was able
to do so, while others seem perfectly happy
to just be right in the middle of it all.
Meanwhile, those who agreed to stay for the
money, but had no intention of participating
find comfort and safety in numbers.
Nya finishes checking in some of the refugees
before circling back with Isaiah who lies
about being in Brooklyn.
Instead, he pops in his new contacts, which
would only work if you don’t already wear
contacts, and then hits the streets to find
Skeletor.
As the sun goes down, everyone settles in
for the festivities.
After some well-wishes from our overlords,
the official warning announcement is broadcast.
As the siren blares, Isaiah emerges into the
night air where some folks are already reveling
in the party atmosphere.
Elsewhere, Skeletor takes a moment to admire
his murderous preparations, and we learn that
social mores were, apparently, the only thing
keeping him as close to within the lines as
he had been.
Eager to get that money, he hits the streets
and manages to draw first blood.
This is confirmed at the command post where
an air of titillation runs through the crowd.
Dmitri checks in with his business partners
and former lovers.
But Nya is tied up at the church in her own
mini-purge when she finds Dolores ransacked
the pastor’s office to dip into his private
stash.
Out in town Isaiah proceeds through an alley
where he wonders if he may be a sheep among
wolves.
He then turns a corner where he finds those
two ladies had, apparently, raided the local
radio shack in order to fashion some remote
detonators.
He makes it through the gauntlet and comes
out in the business square where the town
proprietors try in vain to protect their storefronts.
He then runs across a group of school chums
who convince him to join them at a purge party
where they intend to leave this nastiness
behind them and just dance.
This is bad news at the command post, where
they observe parties unfolding all over town.
I mean, how will the people heal their broken,
individual psyches if they don’t engage
in collective acts of violence?
This moment is interrupted, however, when
news of the first murder of the evening begins
to disseminate to various groups.
Isaiah takes this as his cue to head out to
find his target.
But his target has arrived and he is delighted
at the opportunities before him.
Back at Dmitri’s penthouse, his assistant
delivers him some ready and willing ladies,
who immediately begin to put on a show for
daddy.
After some concurrent grinding at both locations,
everyone starts to get aggressively stabby.
The two femme fatales employ their best moves
while the part goers discover how disruptive
murder is toward experiencing joy.
Once neutralized, the ladies immediately rat
out their employer.
Updale considers this a fairly good starting
point, even though the news reports out that
it’s generally quiet out there.
Isaiah contributes to the quietude when he
struggles to do the one thing he set out to
accomplish that evening, and finds himself
scurrying around looking for a dangerous place
to hide.
Despite the open legality of everything, the
crackheads are still enjoying their drugs
underground, and do not appreciate the intrusion.
Recognizing he’s now in too deep, Isaiah
finds a quiet spot and comes clean to Nya,
dragging her out into the open.
She suffers the misfortune of running across
a baby-faced crotch-grabber who, we presume,
has been waiting under a grate all night,
hoping an attractive woman would come check
out this one dumpster?
So anyway, she arrives at the spot and waits
outside for Isaiah to come out, the perfect
plan!
He removes his contacts to avoid detection
and then emerges just in time to stab Skeletor
in the back with a large shard of glass.
Elsewhere, Capital A rolls up to the ladies
and, in his celebratory mood, basically admits
to everything out loud, thinking this is now
his time to wear the crown.
This prompts D to spring his trap where we
also learn he has an unusual talent to help
carry him through - then some purgin’ happens.
While it feels like things are ramping up,
we learn at the command post that there is
some anxiety around the relatively low levels
of participation in comparison to expectations.
Nya and Isaiah are heading back toward the
church and discussing the best pathway toward
success and lifelong enrichment.
They come to an agreement, but the good times
are ruined when a succubus pops out and puts
them up against the wall.
Luckily, he’s just a mischievous devil,
out to have some fun - the little stinker!
But he’s followed by a true danger as a
gang of caucasoid dirt bikers roll through
ahead of a very professional looking caravan.
This development is coincidentally expanded
upon when a news story notes an unexpected
development in human behavioral research - a
high percentage of participants on the grounds
are wearing masks to hide their identity.
On the way back to his penthouse, D is then
involved in a major car accident.
He wakes up to a full on gun battle underway.
He momentarily turns into John Wick before
calling in his location for some backup.
When they arrive, it’s noted the dead gentlemen
have matching tattoos that indicate military
background, and they are identified as mercenaries.
Meanwhile Nya and Isaiah arrive at the church
just in time to see the end stage of a massacre
underway.
They find a couple of survivors, but nearby
gunfire prevents them from sticking around
to find anyone else, so they go back to their
apartment.
At the command post, it’s noted that a slow
start with a sudden spike in violence is the
inverse of expectations.
Suspicious about the outcomes, since it couldn’t
be her hypothesis, Updale requests the camera
tech backtrack the CCTV to ascertain where
the caravan originated.
It turns out a large number of vehicles came
spewing from a central garage location and
then immediately converged on various, highly
populated areas around the city.
When confronted with this info, Sabian comes
right out and admits that this was all an
attempt to cull the population to make it
easier to manage reasonable solutions to most
of our social ills.
Now, for the first time since grad school,
Updale reconsiders her pursuit of the social
sciences.
Back at the accident site, now with an earpiece
in hand, D and his group decide to track the
mercs and use their talent for violence to
save the community.
First they head back to the armory to pick
all their personal favorites before hitting
the streets to mount a counterforce.
As they do that, our survivors run the streets
with violence unfolding all around them, eventually
arriving at their building.
They just barely make it in unscathed, but
are home now, and there’s only two hours
of purging left.
The state of things is almost overwhelming,
but then Dolores arrives to bring some levity
in these trying times.
D’s team hears about some locals who are
pinned down and putting up a resistance.
We see it’s the three kings fighting off
a gang of klansmen.
Unfortunately, they are out-equipped as they
run out of ammunition in succession, requiring
them to transition to melee weapons.
But before the klan can make a move, some
smoke grenades fog up the joint and provide
the perfect cover for the wrecking crew to
slip in unseen and just absolutely destroy
their enemies.
Unfortunately, there’s no time to celebrate
as the radio indicates that all units are
now converging on Park Hill.
They make it there quickly but, while planning,
a gang of drones takes out the whole group,
leaving Dmitri lonely while also confirming
he does not know how to die.
As the militia moves into the building, Nya
encourages them to arm themselves, and D calls
her to confirm that he’s going to make his
way up from behind them.
He approaches the first active floor, where
the team is already winning hallway battles
and busting down doors.
As a warmup, a couple of blokes happen into
the stairwell with D where he helps them recognize
the mistakes they’ve made in life that have
led them here.
He then gets the idea to take out the lights.
This turns the advantage in his favor, and
he is able to quietly take out an entire unit,
other than the captain who then calls in for
a replenishment of manpower.
Up ahead at the apartment, Nya comes up with
a plan for the attackers - use their five
bullets to shoot low and then come in for
the kill once incapacitated.
They wait for the inevitable, and it goes
off sans hitch, with Isaiah even showing he’s
starting to get his stabbing legs under him.
D then arrives to take out their backup.
Unfortunately, the reinforcements have shown
up.
He scopes the corner with a mirror and lucks
out as, right when they’re about to let
loose with a rocket, Skeletor arrives and
is disappointed to discover that the NFFA
hired outside contractors to do his job.
He files his complaint with the manager, giving
D time to toss out a C4 charge and shoot it,
roasting alive anyone who wasn’t already
dead.
As the sun comes up outside, the sirens signalling
the end of Purge night sound off.
The survivors of Park Hill emerge with a renewed
optimism and we’re left to assume that everything
got better from there.
It feels good to now fully know why we have
a purge and that it, at least, started from
a place of good intentions.
If only Dr. Updale’s pure and therapeutic
vision hadn’t been so twisted and bastardized
by the dirty business of politics, imagine
how well-off our society would be now.
In watching this one, I think it makes sense
that Purge activities seem to revolve around
murdering people you don’t like.
If you know people are going to be out murdering,
then the ultimate stakes for going out would
be to wind up dead.
So, why would you go out unless you really
had a murderous itch you needed to scratch?
You’d think you’re going to have fun raiding
a candy store or scoring fifteen copies of
Madden ‘21, only to wind up dead.
Aside from that, the Purge series has had
political implications from the start.
But, I’m not sure that these themes were
provided additional depth by making it all
tie back specifically to governmental attempts
at population control.
That seems a bit more heavy handed than it
needed to be, but what did you think?
The series box office went up with each successive
installment.
Do you think it holds up well across the board?
Let me know in the comments below, and if
you’ve seen the newest movie I’d love
to hear how it rates in comparison to the
others.
Before we go, I’d like to give a huge thanks
to my donors, memorialized in the hall of
headshots.
I have a website set up where you can support
the channel through donations or merch.
Any donation unlocks uncensored movie reviews
of Lifeforce and Under the Skin, with others
to be added over time.
If you enjoyed the video, I’d love for you
to become a part of the channel by subscribing.
Thanks for watching.